.TH YADEX 6 2008-09-01 "Yadex 1.7.1" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" .OP - synopsis of an option
.\"   $1: short name
.\"   $2: long name
.\"   $3: argument
.de OP
\\fB\-\\$1\\fP, \\fB\-\\$2\\fP \\fI\\$3\\fP
..
.SH NAME
yadex \- a Doom/Heretic/Strife level editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "yadex \-?" | \-help | \-\-help
.br
.B yadex \-\-version
.br
\fByadex\fP [\fIoptions\fP] [\fIfile\fP ...]
.br
\fByadex\fP [\fIoptions\fP] \fB\-b\fP \fIstring\fP [\fIfile\fP ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Yadex can be used to view, create and modify levels for
\fBDoom\fP, \fBUltimate Doom\fP, \fBDoom II\fP, \fBFinal
Doom\fP, \fBDoom press release pre beta\fP and \fBHeretic\fP.
It also supports, to a lesser extent, \fBDoom alpha\fP,
\fBHexen\fP and \fBStrife\fP.

See \fBREADME\fP for a quick start.
.br
To know what's new in this release, see \fBCHANGES\fP.
.br
The rest of documentation is in \fBdoc/index.html\fP (HTML format).
.SH OPTIONS
Boolean options can be negated by using \fB+\fP instead of
\fB\-\fP.  For example, \fB+v\fP would disable verbose mode even
if \fBverbose\fP is set to 1 in the configuration file. For non
boolean options, \fB+\fP is equivalent to \fB\-\fP (note: the
fact that a misimplementation is documented should not be
construed as an incitement to make use of it).

For options that take a parameter, the option and the parameter
must be in separate command\-line arguments, i.e. you
\fIcannot\fP write \fB\-gdoom\fP.

It is not possible to run options together, i.e. you \fIcan't\fP
use \fB\-dv\fP as short for \fB\-d\fP \fB\-v\fP.

The \fB\-\-\fP "end-of-options" convention is not supported.
.TP
.BR \-? , \ \-help , \ \-\-help
Print usage summary to stdout and exit successfully.
.TP
.BI \-b \ string
Run a benchmark on some part of Yadex and exit successfully. See
the \fBbenchmark()\fP function for further details.
.TP
.OP d debug
Debug mode.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBdebug\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.B \-expert
Expert mode. Enforces default choices for certain dialogs. As
those default choices are IMHO not all judicious, I don't
recommend using this option. Check
\fBinsert_vertex_split_linedef\fP and
\fBinsert_vertex_merge_vertices\fP instead.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBexpert\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP f config_file file
Use \fIfile\fP as the config file instead of the default.
.TP
.OP fc fake_cursor
(X11 only) Fake cursor. Currently, this option is a no\-op.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBfake_cursor\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP fn font string
(X11 only) Use font \fIstring\fP.
If no font is specified or if the specified font is not
found, Yadex falls back on the default font of the X server.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBfont\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP g game string
Set the game to \fIstring\fP, which can be one of the following:
.if n \{ .ta 2 12
.sp \}
.if t \{ .ta 1.5 7.5
.sp 0.4 \}
.nf
\(bu	\fBdoom\fP	Doom or Ultimate Doom
\(bu	\fBdoom02\fP	Doom alpha 0.2
\(bu	\fBdoom04\fP	Doom alpha 0.4
\(bu	\fBdoom05\fP	Doom alpha 0.5
\(bu	\fBdoom2\fP	Doom II or Final Doom
\(bu	\fBdoompr\fP	Doom press release pre-beta
\(bu	\fBheretic\fP	Heretic
\(bu	\fBhexen\fP	Hexen
\(bu	\fBstrife\fP	Strife 1.1 and later
\(bu	\fBstrife10\fP	Strife 1.0
.fi
.if n .sp
.if t .sp 0.4
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBgame\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP h height integer
(X11 only) Initial height of the window. If the argument is just
a number, the height of the window will be that many pixels. If
the argument is a number followed by a percent sign (\fB%\fP),
it will be that many percent of the width of the screen. The
default is 90%.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBheight\fP
directive of the configuration file.
See also \fB\-w\fP.
.TP
.OP i1 iwad1 file
The name of the Doom or Ultimate Doom iwad.
This option has effect only if the game is \fBdoom\fP.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBiwad1\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP i2 iwad2 file
The name of the Doom II or Final Doom iwad.
This option has effect only if the game is \fBdoom2\fP.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBiwad2\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP i3 iwad3 file
The name of the Heretic iwad.
This option has effect only if the game is \fBheretic\fP.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBiwad3\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP i4 iwad4 file
The name of the Hexen iwad.
This option has effect only if the game is \fBhexen\fP.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBiwad4\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP i5 iwad5 file
The name of the Strife iwad.
This option has effect only if the game is \fBstrife\fP.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBiwad5\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP i6 iwad6 file
The name of the Doom alpha 0.2 iwad.
This option has effect only if the game is \fBdoom02\fP.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBiwad6\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP i7 iwad7 file
The name of the Doom alpha 0.4 iwad.
This option has effect only if the game is \fBdoom04\fP.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBiwad7\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP i8 iwad8 file
The name of the Doom alpha 0.5 iwad.
This option has effect only if the game is \fBdoom05\fP.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBiwad8\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP i9 iwad9 file
The name of the Doom press release pre-beta iwad.
This option has effect only if the game is \fBdoompr\fP.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBiwad9\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP i10 iwad10 file
The name of the Strife 1.0 iwad.
This option has effect only if the game is \fBstrife10\fP.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBiwad10\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP pw pwad file
[Deprecated] Load pwad \fIfile\fP. This option is useless since
pwads can be given as arguments anyway. It's there for backward
compatibility only.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBpwad\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP P no_pixmap
(X11 only) Use no pixmap. Makes Yadex more responsive at the
cost of a lot of flickering. Off by default.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBno_pixmap\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP q quiet
In theory, quiet mode. In practice, has no effect.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBquiet\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP qq quieter
Quieter. Makes Yadex completely silent (beepless).
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBquieter\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP s0 select0
Select the 0th object automatically whenever the editing mode is
set.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBselect0\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP sb swap_buttons
Swap mouse buttons. Currently, this option is a no\-op.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBswap_buttons\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP td text_dot
Debug the \fBDrawScreenText\fP() function.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBtext_dot\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.OP v verbose
Verbose mode.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBverbose\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information to stdout and exit successfully.

The first line contain three fields, separated by white space,
with no other punctuation. The first field is the name of the
program ("\fBYadex\fP"). The second field is the version number
("\fB1.7.1\fP"). The third field is the release date, between
parentheses ("\fB(2008-09-01)\fP").

The second line contains a configuration file magic string (not
used).

The third line contains the magic string that this version
requires at the beginning of game definition files.
.TP
.OP w width dimension
(X11 only) Initial width of the window. If the argument is just
a number, the width of the window will be that many pixels. If
the argument is a number followed by a percent sign (\fB%\fP),
it will be that many percent of the width of the screen. The
default is 90%.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBwidth\fP
directive in the configuration file.
See also \fB\-h\fP.
.TP
.OP z zoom_default integer
Initial zoom factor in percent. The default is 0, which means
that the zoom factor is to be adjusted so that the level fills
the window.
This option is equivalent to and overrides the \fBzoom_default\fP
directive of the configuration file.
.SH FILES
.SS Configuration files
.nf
.B ./yadex.cfg
.B ~/.yadex/1.7.1/yadex.cfg
.B ~/.yadex/yadex.cfg
.B /etc/yadex/1.7.1/yadex.cfg
.B /etc/yadex/yadex.cfg
.fi
.SS Game definition files
.nf
.BI ./ game .ygd
.BI ~/.yadex/1.7.1/ game .ygd
.BI ~/.yadex/ game .ygd
.BI /usr/local/share/games/yadex/1.7.1/ game .ygd
.BI /usr/local/share/games/yadex/ game .ygd
.fi
.SS Swap files
.B $TMPDIR/yadexswp??????
.br
.B /tmp/yadexswp??????
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.IP \fBDISPLAY\fP
X11 only. The name of the X display that Yadex will try to
connect to.
.IP \fBHOME\fP
Used to expand \fB~\fP when locating configuration and game
definition files.
.IP \fBLINES\fP
If set, Yadex assumes the tty has that many lines instead of 24.
The value must be an unsigned, non-zero decimal integer.
.IP \fBTMPDIR\fP
If set, swap files are created there. Otherwise, in \fB/tmp\fP.
.IP \fBYADEX_GAME\fP
Indicates the game to use. Overrides the \fBgame\fP parameter in
the config file, is overridden by the \fB\-g\fP command line
option.
.SH APPLICATION RESOURCES
None. Yadex does not use the X resources system.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.ta 3
\fB0\fP	OK.
.br
\fB1\fP	Incorrect invocation.
.br
\fB>1\fP	Fatal error.
.SH BUGS
In certain circumstances, exposures are not handled.
If the Yadex window turns black,
back out by pressing [Esc], several times if necessary.

If you edit a level from a file that contains several and save it,
all the other levels from that file are lost.

And many more. See \fBTODO\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
André Majorel (http://www.teaser.fr/~amajorel/)

.nf
Contributors:
Andrew J. Apted (http://www.netspace.net.au/~ajapted/)
Matthew W. Miller (zbp+ee+fhozhybp=eryyvzjz)
.fi

Yadex is derived from DEU 5.21 that was written by Raphaël Quinet,
Brendon Wyber and others.

See the HTML documentation for detailed credits.
.SH LEGAL
.SS Yadex
.nf
Parts copyright Andrew Apted 2000-2001, GNU GPL v2
.br
Parts copyright André Majorel 1997-2003, GNU GPL v2
.br
Parts copyright Matthew W. Miller 2000, GNU GPL v2
.br
Parts written by Raphaël Quinet, public domain
.br
Parts written by Brendon Wyber, public domain
.br
.fi

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free
Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA
02111-1307, USA.
.SS Atclib
The Yadex distribution includes a subset of Atclib.

Atclib is copyright André Majorel 1995-1999 and distributed under the terms of
version 2 of the GNU Library General Public License.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of version 2 of the GNU Library General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Library General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free
Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston,
MA 02111-1307, USA
.SS Boost
The Yadex distribution includes a subset of Boost 1.25.0.

Boost 1.25.0 is copyright various authors and released under the following
terms\ : Permission to copy, use, modify, sell and distribute this software is
granted provided this copyright notice appears in all copies.
This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty, and with
no claim as to its suitability for any purpose.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bsp (6),
.BR idbsp (6),
.BR tkwadcad (6),
.BR warm (6),
.BR xwadtools (6)
.IP LDE
http://interreality.org/~tetron/technology/lde/
.IP PFME
http://www.purplefrog.com/~thoth/purplefrog/editor.html
.IP Why
http://www.hut.fi/~jpakkane/why/
.IP "Xwad (part of Dumb)"
http://stekt.oulu.fi/~tosi/dumb/dumb.html
.IP Xwadtools
ftp://3darchives.in-span.net/pub/idgames/source/
